---
title: Learning Jekyll in a weekend
layout: post
permalink: learning-jekyll-in-a-weekend
image: "/assets/img/mine"
categories: javascript
---

I started blogging years ago when I was in highshool. It never became something coninstent and I must have started like a dozen of blogs about my different hobbies. I have exprience using Blogger and Wordpress (paid and free). If would have known jekyll existed I would have used it from day but I didn't know how to program 3-5 years ago. My point is that jekyll is a really great blogging tool (my favorite) if you are willing to learn a little. 

I knew about Jekyll for about a year now but I never tried doing something with it. This Christmass weekend I worked my way through the docs and learned how incredible Jekyll is.

### Why Jekyll is awesome

1. You get free hosting on github 
2. You have full control of the HTML and CSS (template)
3. You can add dynamic functionality fairly easy 
4. And you get a nice pool of plugin options

So lets go through everything step by step:

## Index 
1.  [Installing & Creating a blog](#installing--creating-a-blog)
2.  [Layouts & Includes](#layouts--includes)
3.  [Learning Liquid](#learning-liquid)
4.  [How to use variables](#how-to-use-variables)
5.  [Writing Posts](#writing-posts)
6.  [What are plugins ?](#what-are-plugins-)
7.  [How to deploy ?](#how-to-deploy-)

------
## Installing & Creating a Blog

Before we install Jekyll we need Ruby and already you are presented with different options, for now lets assume you have it installed and if not I highly recommend you use a Ruby Version Manager like [__rbenv__](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv) or [__rvm__](https://rvm.io/). Read about both, chose one and install Ruby 2.2 (or higher).

Once you have Ruby installed we can install Jekyll which is just a [Ruby Gem](https://rubygems.org/) :
Open Terminal:

{% highlight bash %}
$ gem install jekyll bundler
$ jekyll new my-blog
$ bundle exec jekyll serve
{% endhighlight %}

Ok, so  we installed 2 gems: `jekyll` and `bundler`. We already know what Jekyll is. As for Bundler:

> Bundler provides a consistent environment for Ruby projects by tracking 
> and installing the exact gems and versions that are needed.

It installs gems and does all the dependency management for you which means less time coding (debugging). 

Now that we installed, created and even executed our blog, we can take a look at `localhost:4000` and you should see your blog running.  Now lets quite the server and take a look at everything. 

First of all, in Jekyll you are presented with 2 options:

1. You create everythnig from sratch (no themes)
2. You can chose a theme ([Jekyll Themes](http://jekyllthemes.org/))

At my first run I installed Jekyll and tried building everything from sratch using Bootrstrap CDN and design a quick skeleton but I soon noticed that life is easier if you use a theme and customize everything afterward. I went ahead and chose the __[basically basic](https://github.com/mmistakes/jekyll-theme-basically-basic)__ theme.  You can build everything from scratch too. The folder/file structure is pretty much the same. Jekyll doesn't create everything so you have to create the missing files and folders:

{% highlight bash %}

.gitignore
404.html
Gemfile
Gemfile.lock
_config.yml
_posts/
_includes/ # partials go here
_layouts/
_sass/
index.md # your entry point 

{% endhighlight %}

This is how  a basic Jekyll project looks like. For the most past each file and folder describes itself.

## Layouts & Includes
## Learning Liquid

https://github.com/Shopify/liquid/wiki

## How to use variables
## Writing Posts
## What are plugins ?
## How to deploy ?

https://alxgbsn.co.uk/2017/12/08/adding-a-service-worker-to-jekyll