---
title: 100 Days of Code Logs
permalink: 100DaysOfCode
image: /assets/img/web-dev
extention: .jpg
---

As the days progress I will keep this blog post up to date as a change log to keep track of what I did on each day of the challenge.

# Index:

1. [Day 0: January 1st](#day-0-january-1st)
2. [Day 1: January 2nd](#day-1-january-2nd)
3. [Day 2: January 3rd](#day-2-january-3rd)
4. [Day 3: January 4th](#day-3-january-4th)
5. [Day 4: January 5th](#day-4-january-5th)
6. [Day 5: January 6th](#day-5-january-6th)
7. [Day 6: January 7th](#day-6-january-7th)
8. [Day 7: January 8th](#day-7-january-8th)
9. [Day 8: January 9th](#day-8-january-9th)
10. [Day 9: January 10th](#day-9-january-10th)
11. [Day 10: January 11th](#day-10-january-11th)
12. [Day 11: January 12th](#day-11-january-12th)
13. [Day 12: January 13th](#day-12-january-13th)
14. [Day 13: January 14th](#day-13-january-14th)

# Day 0: January 1st
Today I started and finished a Calculator Project using Plain Javascript, the main challenge were not the operations but working with the UI. Some of the main problems were:

* update the numbers typed in and the result at the right time
* get the right values from the button
* differentiate between numbers and operators as well special operators (=, remove)
* validate the input so that the app doesn't end up with multiple operators (ex: +++-4)

I have to say that day after day, I'm starting to feel more comfortable using Javascript with ES6 syntax.

<p data-height="342" data-theme-id="0" data-slug-hash="vpZXVK" data-default-tab="js,result" data-user="mr-moon" data-embed-version="2" data-pen-title="Calculator in plain Javascript" class="codepen">See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/mr-moon/pen/vpZXVK/">Calculator in plain Javascript</a> by Alexander Luna (<a href="https://codepen.io/mr-moon">@mr-moon</a>) on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</p>
<script async src="https://production-assets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>
<br><br>


# Day 1: January 2nd
Today I worked on the Ruby Exercises from `The Odin Project` ([found here](https://github.com/Mycroft1891/learn_ruby)) and completed them all. I also completed the first 3 exercises of `The Euler project`. While working with Prime Numbers in Ruby I noticed that the Prime Number validator `Prime.prime?(n)` is actually slow and I spend some time reading the `Ruby` language repository and found out that their algorithm to determine whether a number is a prime or not is about 3x slower than the algorithm I found on the internet while searching for better algorithms. I compared the build in prime method from Ruby with this algorithm:

{% highlight ruby%}
def isprime?(n)
  return false if n ==1
  return true if n == 2 || n == 3
  return false if n % 2 == 0 || n % 3 == 0

  i = 5
  w = 2

  while i * i <= n
      return false if n % i == 0
      i += w
      w = 6 - w
  end

  return true
end
{% endhighlight%}

I tested both `Prime.prime?(n)` and `isprime?(n)` with 1,000,000 numbers, the results are quite surprising:

{% highlight bash %}

ruby prime_tester.rb
(Prime) Time to complete (1 mil): 9.670435
(Prime) 78498 prime numbers found

(isprime?) Time to complete (1 mil): 2.173219
(isprime?) 78498 prime numbers found
{% endhighlight %}

This might be a future contribution to the Ruby Language but for now it requires more testing.

And that wraps up day 1
<br><br>


# Day 2: January 3rd
Today I spend most of the time building a blog using `Ruby on Rails 5`. I already have experience building apps using Rails 4 which I'm currently using in production which is why I'm working on upgrading to Rails 5. The is live available thanks to Heroku here: [https://immense-cove-36319.herokuapp.com/](https://immense-cove-36319.herokuapp.com/ )
<br><br>


# Day 3: January 4th
I build a Pomodoro clock with a graphical user interface in pure Javascript. I like the idea of a Pomodoro clock and would like to make a desktop version using `electron` in the coming days. More on that later.

As I mentioned in a previous post I was working on a contribution to the `Ruby Language` to reduce the `Prime:prime?` processing time. Currently my pull request is still pending but it passed all local tests and specs as well as `appveyor` integration tests and `travis-ci` integration tests. Over all I'm happy with my contribution so far although I had to do 2 quick fixes because of stupid errors I made to make it work.

And that pretty much wraps up day 4 of the challenge.
<br><br>


# Day 4: January 5th
Today was a chilled day, I just finished the `Web Development 101` curriculum from `The Odin Project` and I'm now working on the `Ruby` curriculum. I put most of my effort today into writing Ruby scripts and finishing my  `Weather API` project from `Free Code Camp`:

<p data-height="265" data-theme-id="0" data-slug-hash="baBjqr" data-default-tab="js,result" data-user="mr-moon" data-embed-version="2" data-pen-title="Local Weather API" class="codepen">See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/mr-moon/pen/baBjqr/">Local Weather API</a> by Alexander Luna (<a href="https://codepen.io/mr-moon">@mr-moon</a>) on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</p>
<script async src="https://production-assets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>
<br><br>


# Day 5: January 6th
For this date I mainly wrote ruby scripts to solve some common problems. I also took some time to organize my repo, commit some changes that were left on my local machine as well as keep progressing through `The Odin Project`.
<br><br>


# Day 6: January 7th
Today I progressed more through the `ruby programming` curriculum and build a `tic tac toe` CLI game. The rest of the day I spend reading through the reading material for the curriculum, ElectronJS's documentation and preparing myself for SEO course at Google here in Berlin.
<br><br>


# Day 7: January 8th
I barely wrote code today, I spend over 4 hours at Google's Office in Berlin learning about SEO & Google Analytics. I was able to update some of my blog's html & config files and create a Pull Request on `github` to `TheOdinProject`
<br><br>


# Day 8: January 9th
I started to work on a Progressive Web App using `reactjs`, `Firebase`, the `NASA API` and Remote Pair Programming. I'm currently part of the Google and Udacity scholarship and to improve our knowledge, Udacity introduced Remote Pair programming projects. The idea is to build a project using the skills we learned in this course with a random pair that Udacity assigns to us every monday.
<br><br>


# Day 9: January 10th
I'm still working on the PWA using `reactjs` and `Firebase`. I'm also working on a Ruby challenge from `TheOdinProject` more on that tomorrow. And I wanted to thank `firefox` for the drinks and the study session for `rust language` in their community spaces here in Berlin.
<br><br>


# Day 10: January 11th
I worked on a Retro Snake game in Javascript and kept reading some lessons from `TheOdinProject` and worked on some Ruby Benchmarking tests:

<p data-height="265" data-theme-id="0" data-slug-hash="YYvwap" data-default-tab="js,result" data-user="mr-moon" data-embed-version="2" data-pen-title="Retro Snake Game" class="codepen">See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/mr-moon/pen/YYvwap/">Retro Snake Game</a> by Alexander Luna (<a href="https://codepen.io/mr-moon">@mr-moon</a>) on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</p>
<script async src="https://production-assets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>
<br><br>


# Day 11: January 12th
Great news, I deployed Version 1 of the `Google udacity` project 🍻
The ReactJS and Firebase part is pretty much done, now I will have to tackle the Service Worker part to make the offline experience great. Take a look: [nasa-udacity](https://nasa-udacity.firebaseapp.com/)
<br><br>


# Day 12: January 13th
I'm still polishing my React project but also working on some new things now. I posted my `Retro Ping Pong Game` on `CodePen` give it a try If you like retro games or just want to take a look at the Javascript code:

<p data-height="265" data-theme-id="0" data-slug-hash="ypEeoR" data-default-tab="js,result" data-user="mr-moon" data-embed-version="2" data-pen-title="Retro Ping Pong Game" class="codepen">See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/mr-moon/pen/ypEeoR/">Retro Ping Pong Game</a> by Alexander Luna (<a href="https://codepen.io/mr-moon">@mr-moon</a>) on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</p>
<script async src="https://production-assets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>
<br><br>


# Day 13: January 14th
I worked on the Pomodoro Clock I previously build using vanilla Javascript. Currently I'm converting it into a Desktop app using `ElectronJS`.
